0709.0604 0709.0604 A MERLIN Study of 6 GHz Excited-state OH & 6.7 GHz Methanol Masers in ON1.  MERLIN observations of 6.668-GHz methanol and both 6.031- and 6.035-GHz hydroxyl (OH) emission from the massive star-formation region ON1 are presented. These are the first methanol observations made in full polarization using 5 antennas of MERLIN, giving high resolution and sensitivity to extended emission. Maser features are found to lie at the southern edge of the ultra-compact HII region, following the known distribution of ground-state OH masers. The masers cover a region ~1 arcsec in extent, lying perpendicular to the H13CO+ bipolar outflow. Excited-state OH emission demonstrates consistent polarization angles across the strongest linearly polarized features which are parallel to the overall distribution. The linear polarizations vary between 10.0 and 18.5 per cent, with an average polarization angle of -60 deg +/- 28 deg. The strongest 6.668-GHz methanol features provide an upper limit to linear polarization of ~1 per cent. Zeeman splitting of OH shows magnetic fields between -1.1 to -5.8 mG, and a tentative methanol magnetic field strength of -18 mG is measured.
math/0207249 math/0207249 Stability of some unilateral free-discontinuity problems in two-dimensional domains.  The purpose of this paper is to study the stability of some unilateral free-discontinuity problems, under perturbations of the discontinuity sets in the Hausdorff metric.
1201.4520 1201.4520 The Horn, Kink and Step, Dale: from few GeV to few TeV.  Rich experimental data have been collected in heavy-ion collisions at high energies to study the properties of strongly interacting matter. As the theory of strong interactions, QCD, predicts asymptotic freedom, the created matter at sufficiently high temperature and density will be dominated by a state of quasi-free quarks and gluons referred to as the Quark-Qluon Plasma (QGP). Experimental signals for the onset of the QGP creation (the onset of the deconfinement) have been predicted within the statistical model for the early stage of nucleus-nucleus collisions. In this model the existence of two different phases is assumed: confined mater and the QGP, as well as a first order phase transition between them. Until recently, these predictions were confirmed only by the NA49 experiment at the CERN SPS. In this report recent results from STAR at RHIC/BNL and from ALICE at LHC/CERN, related to the onset of deconfinement, will be compared to published results from NA49.
1606.03437 1606.03437 A Guaranteed Cost Approach to Robust Model Predictive Control of Uncertain Linear Systems.  This paper proposes a constrained guaranteed cost robust model predictive controller (GCMPC) for uncertain discrete time systems. Such controller enables the design of Robust Model Predictive Controllers with quadratic cost func- tional and quadratically bound uncertainties, which is currently intractable on Min-Max Model Predictive Control techniques. The developed technique requires a Quadratically Constraint Quadratic Problem (QCQP) optimization while LMI-based GCMPC approaches require a Semi-Definite Programming (SDP) optimization. A conservative approximation which simplifies the optimization problem to a Quadratic Programming (QP) is also proposed.
hep-lat/0009001 hep-lat/0009001 From Monte Carlo Integration to Quantum Chromo Dynamics (an introduction).  In these lectures we provide a short introduction to the Monte Carlo integration method and its applications. We show how the origin of ultraviolet divergences if Field Theories is in the undefined formal product of distributions and how one can define the Path Integral in terms of regularized distributions in order to cancel these divergences. This technique provides the only non perturbative regularization procedure of continuum Field Theories and, at the same time, provides a practical method to compute correlation (Green) functions (using Monte Carlo integration for the regularized path integrals). We then apply these tools to formulate QCD on a lattice. Some of the examples are accompanied by complete computer programs.
0811.4158 0811.4158 Photometric redshift accuracy in AKARI Deep Surveys.  We investigate the photometric redshift accuracy achievable with the AKARI infrared data in deep multi-band surveys, such as in the North Ecliptic Pole field. We demonstrate that the passage of redshifted policyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and silicate features into the mid-infrared wavelength window covered by AKARI is a valuable means to recover the redshifts of starburst galaxies. To this end we have collected a sample of ~60 galaxies drawn from the GOODS-North Field with spectroscopic redshift 0.5<~z_spec<~1.5 and photometry from 3.6 to 24 micron, provided by the Spitzer, ISO and AKARI satellites. The infrared spectra are fitted using synthetic galaxy Spectral Energy Distributions which account for starburst and active nuclei emission. For ~90% of the sources in our sample the redshift is recovered with an accuracy |z_phot-z_spec|/(1+z_spec)<~10%. A similar analysis performed on different sets of simulated spectra shows that the AKARI infrared data alone can provide photometric redshifts accurate to |z_phot-z_spec|/(1+z_spec)<~10% (1-sigma) at z<~2. At higher redshifts the PAH features are shifted outside the wavelength range covered by AKARI and the photo-z estimates rely on the less prominent 1.6 micron stellar bump; the accuracy achievable in this case on (1+z) is ~10-15%, provided that the AGN contribution to the infrared emission is subdominant. Our technique is no more prone to redshift aliasing than optical-uv photo-z, and it may be possible to reduce this aliasing further with the addition of submillimetre and/or radio data.
1403.2325 1403.2325 Geometrical Unification of Gravitation and Dark Energy: The Universe as a Relativistic Particle.  The Lagrangian, the Hamilton--Jacobi equation and the Schr\'{o}dinger, Dirac and Klein--Gordon equations for the Friedmann--Robertson--Walker--Quintessence (FRWQ) system are presented and solved exactly for different interesting scenarios. The classical Lagrangian reproduces the usual two (second order) dynamical equations for the radius of the Universe and for the scalar field as well as the (first order) constraint equation. The approach naturally unifies gravity and dark energy, which may be related to the tlaplon (scalar torsion potential). The Lagrangian and the equations of motion are those of a relativistic particle moving on a two dimensional spacetime where the conformal metric factor is related to the dark energy scalar field potential. This allows us to quantize the system, obtaining a Klein-Gordon equation when the Universe is considered as a spinless particle, and a Dirac equation when the Universe is thought as a relativistic spin particle.
1103.3339 1103.3339 Transient Stability Assessment of Smart Power System using Complex Networks Framework.  In this paper, a new methodology for stability assessment of a smart power system is proposed. The key to this assessment is an index called betweenness index which is based on ideas from complex network theory. The proposed betweenness index is an improvement of previous works since it considers the actual real power flow through the transmission lines along the network. Furthermore, this work initiates a new area for complex system research to assess the stability of the power system.
1210.2003 1210.2003 Fermion observables for Lorentz violation.  The relationship between experimental observables for Lorentz violation in the fermion sector and the coefficients for Lorentz violation appearing in the lagrangian density is investigated in the minimal Standard-Model Extension. The definitions of the 44 fermion-sector observables, called the tilde coefficients, are shown to have a block structure. The c coefficients decouple from all the others, have six subspaces of dimension 1, and one of dimension 3. The remaining tilde coefficients form eight blocks, one of dimension 6, one of dimension 2, three of dimension 5, and three of dimension 4. By inverting these definitions, thirteen limits on the electron-sector tilde coefficients are deduced.
1511.03893 1511.03893 Adiabatic Mach-Zehnder interferometer in dipolar spin-1 condensate.  Mach-Zehnder interferometer, a powerful tool for a wide variety of measurements, has been realized with Bose-Einstein condensates in recent experiments. In this report, we propose and analyze a realizable scheme for performing a Heisenberg-limited Mach-Zehnder interferometry with dipolar spin-1 condensate. Based upon adiabatic processes of sweeping the transverse magnetic field, we demonstrate a perfect phase transition, which accomplishes the beam splitter, phase shifter and recombiner as for a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The attractive dipolar interaction ensures the existence of a path-entangled state which enhances the phase measurement precision to the Heisenberg limit. We also discuss the spin-$1$ squeezing induced in the adiabatic passage and show that the squeezing parameter attains its minimal value near the point of saturation field.
astro-ph/0412376 astro-ph/0412376 The Highest-Energy Photons Seen by the Energetic Gamma Ray Experiment Telescope (EGRET) on the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory.  During its nine-year lifetime, the Energetic Gamma Ray Experiment Telescope (EGRET) on the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory (CGRO) detected 1506 cosmic photons with measured energy E>10 GeV. Of this number, 187 are found within 1 degree of sources that are listed in the Third EGRET Catalog and were included in determining the detection likelihood, flux, and spectra of those sources. In particular, five detected EGRET pulsars are found to have events above 10 GeV, and together they account for 37 events. A pulsar not included in the Third EGRET Catalog has 2 events, both with the same phase and in one peak of the lower-energy gamma-ray light-curve. Most of the remaining 1319 events appear to be diffuse Galactic and extragalactic radiation based on the similarity of the their spatial and energy distributions with the diffuse model and in the E>100, MeV emission. No significant time clustering which would suggest a burst was detected.
1512.08359 1512.08359 A discussion of $Bl$ conservation on a two dimensional magnetic field plane in watt balances.  The watt balance is an experiment being pursued in national metrology institutes for precision determination of the Planck constant $h$. In watt balances, the $1/r$ magnetic field, expected to generate a geometrical factor $Bl$ independent to any coil horizontal displacement, can be created by a strict two dimensional, symmetric (horizontal $r$ and vertical $z$) construction of the magnet system. In this paper, we present an analytical understanding of magnetic field distribution when the $r$ symmetry of the magnet is broken and the establishment of the $Bl$ conservation is shown. By using either Gauss's law on magnetism with monopoles or conformal transformations, we extend the $Bl$ conservation to arbitrary two dimensional magnetic planes where the vertical magnetic field component equals zero. The generalized $Bl$ conservation allows a relaxed physical alignment criteria for watt balance magnet systems.
1604.06023 1604.06023 Emergence of a Low Spin Phase in Group Field Theory Condensates.  Recent years have seen great progress towards deriving quantum cosmology models from the effective dynamics of condensate states in group field theory (GFT), where 'cosmology is the hydrodynamics of quantum gravity'; the classical Friedmann dynamics for homogeneous, isotropic universes, as well as loop quantum cosmology (LQC) corrections to general relativity have been shown to emerge from fundamental quantum gravity. We take one further step towards strengthening the link with LQC and show, in a rather wide class of GFT models for gravity coupled to a free massless scalar field and for generic initial conditions, that GFT condensates dynamically reach a low spin phase of many quanta of geometry, in which all but an exponentially small number of quanta are characterised by a single spin $j_0$ (i.e. by a constant volume per quantum). In one particular simple and natural case, this spin is the lowest one, $j_0=1/2$. The type of quantum state usually assumed in the derivation of LQC is hence derived from the quantum dynamics of GFT, and shown to be generic. As the low spin regime is reached, the dynamics of the total volume follows precisely the classical Friedmann equations. The latter result confirms and extends recent results by Oriti, Sindoni and Wilson-Ewing in the same setting.
gr-qc/0203035 gr-qc/0203035 Gravitomagnetic effects for polar circular geodesic orbits around a central rotating body.  The gravitomagnetic corrections to the Keplerian period for a circular, geodesic orbit of a test particle in a polar plane containing the proper angular momentum J of a central rotating body are considered.
hep-th/0006052 hep-th/0006052 Description of Intersecting Branes via Tachyon Condensation.  We construct a model describing BPS brane-systems using low energy effective theory of brane-antibrane system. Both parallel branes and intersecting branes can be treated by this model. After tachyon condensation, the dynamics of fluctuations around such brane-systems is supersymmetric if the degrees of freedom are restricted on the branes. The form of the tachyon potential and the application of this model to the black hole physics are discussed.
1307.7036 1307.7036 Many-body Matter-wave Dark Soliton.  The Gross-Pitaevskii equation - which describes interacting bosons in the mean-field approximation - possesses solitonic solutions in dimension one. For repulsively interacting particles, the stationary soliton is dark, i.e. is represented by a local density minimum. Many-body effects may lead to filling of the dark soliton. Using quasi-exact many-body simulations, we show that, in single realizations, the soliton appears totally dark although the single particle density tends to be uniform.
hep-th/9909170 hep-th/9909170 Parametric holomorphy? Triviality versus Duality in Sinh-Gordon.  Suppose a regularised functional integral depends holomorphically on a parameter that receives only a finite renormalization. Can one expect the correlation functions to retain the analyticity in the parameter after removal of the cutoff(s)? We examine the issue in the Sinh-Gordon theory by computing the intrinsic 4-point coupling as a function of the Lagrangian coupling \beta. Drawing on the conjectured triviality of the model in its functional integral formulation for \beta^2 > 8\pi, and the weak-strong coupling duality in the bootstrap formulation on the other hand, we conclude that the operations: ``Removal of the cutoff(s)'' and ``analytic continuation in \beta'' do not commute.
1601.05690 1601.05690 A New Converse Bound for Coded Caching.  An information-theoretic lower bound is developed for the caching system studied by Maddah-Ali and Niesen. By comparing the proposed lower bound with the decentralized coded caching scheme of Maddah-Ali and Niesen, the optimal memory--rate tradeoff is characterized to within a multiplicative gap of $4.7$ for the worst case, improving the previous analytical gap of $12$. Furthermore, for the case when users' requests follow the uniform distribution, the multiplicative gap is tightened to $4.7$, improving the previous analytical gap of $72$. As an independent result of interest, for the single-user average case in which the user requests multiple files, it is proved that caching the most requested files is optimal.
quant-ph/0211153 quant-ph/0211153 Quantum Key Distribution with High Loss: Toward Global Secure Communication.  We propose a decoy-state method to overcome the photon-number-splitting attack for Bennett-Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution protocol in the presence of high loss: A legitimate user intentionally and randomly replaces signal pulses by multi-photon pulses (decoy-states). Then they check the loss of the decoy-states. If the loss of the decoy-states is abnormally less than that of signal pulses, the whole protocol is aborted. Otherwise, to continue the protocol, they estimate loss of signal multi-photon pulses based on that of decoy-states. This estimation can be done with an assumption that the two losses have similar values, that we justify.
1010.5101 1010.5101 On the Erd{\H o}s--Ginzburg--Ziv constant of finite abelian groups of high rank.  Let $G$ be a finite abelian group. The Erd{\H o}s--Ginzburg--Ziv constant $\mathsf s (G)$ of $G$ is defined as the smallest integer $l \in \mathbb N$ such that every sequence \ $S$ \ over $G$ of length $|S| \ge l$ \ has a zero-sum subsequence $T$ of length $|T| = \exp (G)$. If $G$ has rank at most two, then the precise value of $\mathsf s (G)$ is known (for cyclic groups this is the Theorem of Erd{\H o}s-Ginzburg-Ziv). Only very little is known for groups of higher rank. In the present paper, we focus on groups of the form $G = C_n^r$, with $n, r \in \N$ and $n \ge 2$, and we tackle the study of $\mathsf s (G)$ with a new approach, combining the direct problem with the associated inverse problem.
1512.08062 1512.08062 The Abstract Structure of Quantum Algorithms.  Quantum information brings together theories of physics and computer science. This synthesis challenges the basic intuitions of both fields. In this thesis, we show that adopting a unified and general language for process theories advances foundations and practical applications of quantum information. Our first set of results analyze quantum algorithms with a process theoretic structure. We contribute new constructions of the Fourier transform and Pontryagin duality in dagger symmetric monoidal categories. We then use this setting to study generalized unitary oracles and give a new quantum blackbox algorithm for the identification of group homomorphisms, solving the GROUPHOMID problem. In the remaining section, we construct a novel model of quantum blackbox algorithms in non-deterministic classical computation. Our second set of results concerns quantum foundations. We complete work begun by Coecke et al., definitively connecting the Mermin non-locality of a process theory with a simple algebraic condition on that theory's phase groups. This result allows us to offer new experimental tests for Mermin non-locality and new protocols for quantum secret sharing. In our final chapter, we exploit the shared process theoretic structure of quantum information and distributional compositional linguistics. We propose a quantum algorithm adapted from Weibe et al. to classify sentences by meaning. The clarity of the process theoretic setting allows us to recover a speedup that is lost in the naive application of the algorithm. The main mathematical tools used in this thesis are group theory (esp. Fourier theory on finite groups), monoidal category theory, and categorical algebra.
cond-mat/9909158 cond-mat/9909158 Advanced Dynamic Algorithms for the Decay of Metastable Phases in Discrete Spin Models: Bridging Disparate Time Scales.  An overview of advanced dynamical algorithms capable of spanning the widely disparate time scales that govern the decay of metastable phases in discrete spin models is presented. The algorithms discussed include constrained transfer-matrix, Monte Carlo with Absorbing Markov Chains (MCAMC), and projective dynamics (PD) methods. The strengths and weaknesses of each of these algorithms are discussed, with particular emphasis on identifying the parameter regimes (system size, temperature, and field) in which each algorithm works best.
0704.1456 0704.1456 Effective temperature vs line-depth ratio for ELODIE spectra. Gravity and rotational velocity effects.  The dependence on the temperature of photospheric line-depth ratios (LDRs) in the spectral range 6190-6280 A is investigated by using a sample of 174 ELODIE Archive stellar spectra of luminosity class from V to III. The rotational broadening effect on LDRs is also studied. We provide useful calibrations of effective temperature versus LDRs for giant and main sequence stars with 3800<Teff<6000 K and vsini in the range 0-30 km/s. We found that, with the exception of very few line pairs, LDRs, measured at a spectral resolution as high as 42000, depend on vsini and that, by neglecting the rotational broadening effect, one can mistake the Teff determination of 100 K in the worst cases.
quant-ph/0610068 quant-ph/0610068 Spontaneous radiative decay of translational levels of an atom near a dielectric surface.  We study spontaneous radiative decay of translational levels of an atom in the vicinity of a semi-infinite dielectric. We systematically derive the microscopic dynamical equations for the spontaneous decay process. We calculate analytically and numerically the radiative linewidths and the spontaneous transition rates for the translational levels. The roles of the interference between the emitted and reflected fields and of the transmission into the evanescent modes are clearly identified. Our numerical calculations for the silica--cesium interaction show that the radiative linewidths of the bound excited levels with large enough but not too large vibrational quantum numbers are moderately enhanced by the emission into the evanescent modes and those for the deep bound levels are substantially reduced by the surface-induced red shift of the transition frequency.
astro-ph/0105104 astro-ph/0105104 Luminosity density estimation from redshift surveys and the mass density of the Universe.  In most direct estimates of the mass density (visible or dark) of the Universe, a central input parameter is the luminosity density of the Universe. Here we consider the measurement of this luminosity density from red-shift surveys, as a function of the yet undetermined characteristic scale R_H at which the spatial distribution of visible matter tends to a well defined homogeneity. Making the canonical assumption that the cluster mass to luminosity ratio M/L is the universal one, we can estimate the total mass density as a function \Omega_m(R_H,M/L). Taking the highest estimated cluster value M/L ~300h and a conservative lower limit R_H > 20 Mpc/h, we obtain the upper bound \Omega_m < 0.1 . We note that for values of the homogeneity scale R_H in the range R_H ~ (90 +/- 45) hMpc, the value of \Omega_m may be compatible with the nucleosynthesis inferred density in baryons.
1505.06182 1505.06182 The geometry of proper quaternion random variables.  Properness of a quaternion random variable is related to the symmetries of its probability density function in $4D$ space. Thus, properness should be defined with respect to the most general isometries in $4D$, i.e. rotations from $SO(4)$. Based on this, we propose a new definition of properness, namely the $(\alpha,\beta)$-properness, for quaternion random variables using invariance property under the action of the rotation group $SO(4)$. This new definition generalizes previously introduced properness concepts. A second order study is developed and properties of the covariance matrix of $(\alpha,\beta)$-proper quaternion random variable are presented. Comparisons with previous definitions are given and simulations illustrate in a geometric manner the newly introduced concept.
0908.0255 0908.0255 On Young tableau involutions and patterns in permutations.  This thesis deals with three different aspects of the combinatorics of permutations. In the first two papers, two flavours of pattern avoiding permutations are examined; and in the third paper Young tableaux, which are closely related to permutations via representation theory, are studied. In the first paper we give solutations to several interesting problems regarding pattern avoiding doubly alternating permutations, such as finding a bijection between 1234-avoiding permutations and 1234-avoiding doubly alternating permutations of twice the size. In the second paper partial permutations which can be extended to pattern avoiding permutations are examined. A general algorithm is presented which is subsequently used to solve many different problems. The third paper deals with involutions on Young tableaux. There is a surprisingly large collection of relations among these involutions and in the paper we make the effort to study them systematically in order to create a coherent theory. The most interesting result is that for Littlewood-Richardson tableaux, $a^3=1$, wher5e $a$ is the composition of three different involutions: the fundamental symmetry map, the reversal and rotation involutions.
cond-mat/9802021 cond-mat/9802021 Inversion of K$_3$C$_{60}$ Reflectance Data.  We outline a procedure for obtaining the electron-phonon spectral density by inversion of optical conductivity data, a process very similar in spirit to the McMillan-Rowell inversion of tunelling data. We assume both electron-impurity (elastic) and electron-phonon (inelastic) scattering processes. This procedure has the advantage that it can be utilized in the normal state. Furthermore, a very good qualitative result can be obtained explicitly, without iteration. We illustrate this technique on recently acquired far-infrared data in K$_3$C$_{60}$. We show that the electron-phonon interaction is most likely responsible for superconductivity in these materials.
0908.4002 0908.4002 Deviation from the Wiedemann-Franz law induced by nonmagnetic impurities in overdoped La_{2-x}Sr_{x}CuO_{4}.  To investigate the validity of the Wiedemann-Franz (WF) law in disordered but metallic cuprates, the low-temperature charge and heat transport properties are carefully studied for a series of impurity-substituted and carrier-overdoped La_{1.8}Sr_{0.2}Cu_{1-z}M_zO_4 (M = Zn or Mg) single crystals. With moderate impurity substitution concentrations of z = 0.049 and 0.082 (M = Zn), the resistivity shows a clear metallic behavior at low temperature and the WF law is confirmed to be valid. With increasing impurity concentration to z = 0.13 (M = Zn) or 0.15 (M = Mg), the resistivity shows a low-T upturn but its temperature dependence indicates a finite conductivity in the T \to 0 limit. In this weakly-localized metallic state that is intentionally achieved in the overdoped regime, a {\it negative} departure from the WF law is found, which is opposite to the theoretical expectation.
1502.01052 1502.01052 Disruption of Thermally-Stable Nanoscale Grain Structures by Strain Localization.  Nanocrystalline metals with average grain sizes of only a few nanometers have recently been observed to fail through the formation of shear bands. Here, we investigate this phenomenon in nanocrystalline Ni which has had its grain structure stabilized by doping with W, with a specific focus on understanding how strain localization drives evolution of the nanoscale grain structure. Shear banding was initiated with both microcompression and nanoindentation experiments, followed by site-specific transmission electron microscopy to characterize the microstructure. Grain growth and texture formation were observed inside the shear bands, which had a wide variety of thicknesses. These evolved regions have well-defined edges, which rules out local temperature rise as a possible formation mechanism. No structural evolution was found in areas away from the shear bands, even in locations where significant plastic deformation had occurred, showing that plastic strain alone is not enough to cause evolution. Rather, intense strain localization is needed to induce mechanically-driven grain growth in a thermally-stable nanocrystalline alloy.
astro-ph/0002381 astro-ph/0002381 Fossils of turbulence and non-turbulence in the primordial universe: the fluid mechanics of dark matter.  Was the primordial universe turbulent or non-turbulent soon after the Big Bang? How did the hydrodynamic state of the early universe affect the formation of structure from gravitational forces, and how did the formation of structure by gravity affect the hydrodynamic state of the flow? What can be said about the dark matter that comprises 99.9 % of the mass of the universe according to most cosmological models? Space telescope measurements show answers to these questions persist literally frozen as fossils of the primordial turbulence and nonturbulence that controlled structure formation, contrary to standard cosmology which relies on the erroneous Jeans 1902 linear-inviscid-acoustic theory and a variety of associated misconceptions (e. g., cold dark matter). When effects of viscosity, turbulence, and diffusion are included, vastly different structure scenarios and a clear explanation for the dark matter emerge. From Gibson's 1996 theory the baryonic (ordinary) dark matter is comprised of proto-globular-star-cluster (PGC) clumps of hydrogenous planetoids termed ``primordial fog particles''(PFPs), observed by Schild 1996 as ``rogue planets ... likely to be the missing mass'' of a quasar lensing galaxy. The weakly collisional non-baryonic dark matter diffuses to form outer halos of galaxies and galaxy clusters.
1503.04305 1503.04305 Anosov geodesic flows, billiards and linkages.  Any smooth surface in R^3 may be flattened along the z-axis, and the flattened surface becomes close to a billiard table in R^2 . We show that, under some hypotheses, the geodesic flow of this surface converges locally uniformly to the billiard flow. Moreover, if the billiard is dispersive and has finite horizon, then the geodesic flow of the corresponding surface is Anosov. We apply this result to the theory of mechanical linkages and their dynamics: we provide a new example of a simple linkage whose physical behavior is Anosov. For the first time, the edge lengths of the mechanism are given explicitly.
1509.05693 1509.05693 Detailed analysis of the predictions of loop quantum cosmology for the primordial power spectra.  We provide an exhaustive numerical exploration of the predictions of loop quantum cosmology (LQC) with a post-bounce phase of inflation for the primordial power spectrum of scalar and tensor perturbations. We extend previous analysis by characterizing the phenomenologically relevant parameter space and by constraining it using observations. Furthermore, we characterize the shape of LQC-corrections to observable quantities across this parameter space. Our analysis provides a framework to contrast more accurately the theory with forthcoming polarization data, and it also paves the road for the computation of other observables beyond the power spectra, such as non-Gaussianity.
0909.3463 0909.3463 Kinetic transport in crystals.  One of the central challenges in kinetic theory is the derivation of macroscopic evolution equations--describing, for example, the dynamics of an electron gas--from the underlying fundamental microscopic laws of classical or quantum mechanics. An iconic mathematical model in this research area is the Lorentz gas, which describes an ensemble of non-interacting point particles in an infinite array of spherical scatterers. In the case of a disordered scatterer configuration, the classical results by Gallavotti, Spohn and Boldrighini-Bunimovich-Sinai show that the time evolution of a macroscopic particle cloud is governed, in the limit of small scatterer density (Boltzmann-Grad limit), by the linear Boltzmann equation. In this lecture I will discuss the recent discovery that for a periodic configuration of scatterers the linear Boltzmann equation fails, and the random flight process that emerges in the Boltzmann-Grad limit is substantially more complicated. The key ingredient in the description of the limiting stochastic process is the renormalization dynamics on the space of lattices, a powerful technique that has recently been successfully applied also to other open problems in mathematical physics, including KAM theory and quantum chaos. This lecture is based on joint work with Andreas Strombergsson, Uppsala.
astro-ph/0501545 astro-ph/0501545 The Distance and Metallicity of the Newly Discovered, Nearby Irregular Galaxy HIZSS3.  HIZSS3 is an H I source in the Zone of Avoidance. Its radio characteristics are consistent with it being nearby (~ 1.8 Mpc) low-mass dwarf irregular (dIm) galaxy. It contains a modest H II region, but its stellar population has not been resolved by optical observations. MMT spectra of the H II region are used to derive the line-of-sight extinction (E(B-V) = 1.41 +/- 0.04) and gas metallicity (log O/H + 12 ~ 7.8). ESO VLT near-IR images clearly reveal a resolved stellar population. Narrow-band Pbeta images of the H II region are used in combination with previously published Halpha data to obtain an independent line-of-sight extinction estimate: E(B-V) = 1.32 +/- 0.04. The adopted foreground extinction is E(B-V) = 1.36 +/- 0.06. Based on the K-band luminosity function and K,J-K color-magnitude diagram, the apparent magnitude and color of the tip of the red-giant branch (TRGB) are derived. In turn, these parameters are combined with the adopted foreground extinction to estimate the distance (1.69 +/- 0.07 Mpc) and mean red giant branch metallicity ([Fe/H] = -0.5 +/- 0.1). As an ensemble, these new observations significantly strengthen the conclusion that HIZSS3 is a newly discovered low-mass dIm lurking behind the Milky Way in the outskirts of the Local Group.
cond-mat/9705089 cond-mat/9705089 Comment on 'Boson-fermion model beyond the mean-field approximation'.  In a recent paper [A.S.Alexandrov, J.Phys.:Condens.Matter 8, 6923 (1996); cond-mat/9603111], it has been suggested that there is no Cooper pairing in boson-fermion models of superconductivity. We show that this conjecture is based on an inconsistent approximation that violates an exact identity. Quite generally, the divergence of the fermion t-matrix (the Thouless criterion) is accompanied by the condensation of a boson mode.
1509.05750 1509.05750 Lyot-plane phase masks for improved high-contrast imaging with a vortex coronagraph.  The vortex coronagraph is an optical instrument that precisely removes on-axis starlight allowing for high contrast imaging at small angular separation from the star, thereby providing a crucial capability for direct detection and characterization of exoplanets and circumstellar disks. Telescopes with aperture obstructions, such as secondary mirrors and spider support structures, require advanced coronagraph designs to provide adequate starlight suppression. We introduce a phase-only Lyot-plane optic to the vortex coronagraph that offers improved contrast performance on telescopes with complicated apertures. Potential solutions for the European Extremely Large Telescope (E-ELT) are described and compared. Adding a Lyot-plane phase mask relocates residual starlight away from a region of the image plane thereby reducing stellar noise and improving sensitivity to off-axis companions. The phase mask is calculated using an iterative phase retrieval algorithm. Numerically, we achieve a contrast on the order of $10^{-6}$ for a companion with angular displacement as small as $4~\lambda/D$ with an E-ELT type aperture. Even in the presence of aberrations, improved performance is expected compared to either a conventional vortex coronagraph or optimized pupil plane phase element alone.
cs/0307048 cs/0307048 Integrating cardinal direction relations and other orientation relations in Qualitative Spatial Reasoning.  We propose a calculus integrating two calculi well-known in Qualitative Spatial Reasoning (QSR): Frank's projection-based cardinal direction calculus, and a coarser version of Freksa's relative orientation calculus. An original constraint propagation procedure is presented, which implements the interaction between the two integrated calculi. The importance of taking into account the interaction is shown with a real example providing an inconsistent knowledge base, whose inconsistency (a) cannot be detected by reasoning separately about each of the two components of the knowledge, just because, taken separately, each is consistent, but (b) is detected by the proposed algorithm, thanks to the interaction knowledge propagated from each of the two compnents to the other.
1402.4986 1402.4986 Performance Impact of Data Layout on the GPU-accelerated IDW Interpolation.  This paper focuses on evaluating the performance impact of different data layouts on the GPU-accelerated IDW interpolation. First, we redesign and improve our previous GPU implementation that was performed by exploiting the feature CUDA Dynamic Parallel (CDP). And then, we implement three versions of GPU implementations, i.e., the naive version, the tiled version, and the improved CDP version, based on five layouts including the Structure of Arrays (SoA), the Array of Sturcutes (AoS), the Array of aligned Sturcutes (AoaS), the Structure of Arrays of aligned Structures (SoAoS), and the Hybrid layout. Experimental results show that: the layouts AoS and AoaS achieve better performance than the layout SoA for both the naive version and tiled version, while the layout SoA is the best choice for the improved CDP version. We also observe that: for the two combined data layouts (the SoAoS and the Hybrid), there are no notable performance gains when compared to other three basic layouts. We recommend that: in practical applications, the layout AoaS is the best choice since the tiled version is the fastest one among the three versions of GPU implementations, especially on single precision.
cond-mat/0201347 cond-mat/0201347 Spins in the Vortices of a High Temperature Superconductor.  Neutron scattering is used to characterise the magnetism of the vortices for the optimally doped high-temperature superconductor La(2-x)Sr(x)CuO(4) (x=0.163) in an applied magnetic field. As temperature is reduced, low frequency spin fluctuations first disappear with the loss of vortex mobility, but then reappear. We find that the vortex state can be regarded as an inhomogeneous mixture of a superconducting spin fluid and a material containing a nearly ordered antiferromagnet. These experiments show that as for many other properties of cuprate superconductors, the important underlying microscopic forces are magnetic.
cond-mat/0609745 cond-mat/0609745 Derivation of effective parameters of magnetic metamaterials composed of passive resonant LC inclusions.  We determine rigorously the effective permeability of magnetic metamaterials composed of passive particles exhibiting magnetic resonances. The effective permeability is expressed in terms of circuit parameters characteristic to these particles (L, C, and R) and particle geometry. The derivation takes into account the magnetic coupling between particles. We show that a bigger concentration of particles leads to an improvement in the metamaterial performances (such as bandwidth or loss tangent), but this effect saturates as the particles are packed more tightly. The theory is validated through numerical simulations of physically realizable metamaterials.
gr-qc/0204064 gr-qc/0204064 Possible evidence from laboratory measurements for a latitude and longitude dependence of G.  Stability arguments suggest that the Kaluza-Klein (KK) internal scalar field, $\Phi$, should be coupled to some external fields. An external bulk real scalar field, $\psi$, minimally coupled to gravity is proved to be satisfactory. At low temperature, the coupling of $\psi$ to the electromagnetic (EM) field allows $\Phi$ to be much stronger coupled to the EM field than in the genuine five dimensional KK theory. It is shown that the coupling of $\Phi$ to the geomagnetic field may explain the observed dispersion in laboratory measurements of the (effective) gravitational constant. The analysis takes into account the spatial variations of the geomagnetic field. Except the high PTB value, the predictions are found in good agreement with all of the experimental data.
1310.6530 1310.6530 Interplay of Kondo effect and strong spin-orbit coupling in multi-hole ultraclean carbon nanotubes.  We report on cotunneling spectroscopy magnetoconductance measurements of multi-hole ultraclean carbon nanotube quantum dots in the SU(4) Kondo regime with strong spin-orbit coupling. Successive shells show a gradual weakening of the Kondo effect with respect to the spin-orbital splittings, leading to an evolution from SU(4) to SU(2) symmetry with a suppressed conductance at half shell filling. The extracted energy level spectrum, overally consistent with negligible disorder in the nanotube, shows in the half filled case large renormalizations due to Coulombian effects.
astro-ph/0702205 astro-ph/0702205 Alfven Waves and Turbulence in the Solar Atmosphere and Solar Wind.  We solve the problem of propagation and dissipation of Alfvenic turbulence in a model solar atmosphere consisting of a static photosphere and chromosphere, transition region, and open corona and solar wind, using a phenomenological model for the turbulent dissipation based on wave reflection. We show that most of the dissipation for a given wave-frequency spectrum occurs in the lower corona, and the overall rms amplitude of the fluctuations evolves in a way consistent with observations. The frequency spectrum, for a Kolmogorov-like slope, is not found to change dramatically from the photosphere to the solar wind, however it does preserve signatures of transmission throughout the lower atmospheric layers, namely oscillations in the spectrum at high frequencies reminiscent of the resonances found in the linear case. These may disappear once more realistic couplings for the non-linear terms are introduced, or if time-dependent variability of the lower atmospheric layer is introduced.
1111.4421 1111.4421 Historical risk measures on stock market indices and energy markets.  In this paper we look at the efficacy of different risk measures on energy markets and across several different stock market indices. We use both the Value at Risk and the Tail Conditional Expectation on each of these data sets. We also consider several different durations and levels for historical risk measures. Through our results we make some recommendations for a robust risk management strategy that involves historical risk measures.
cs/0309055 cs/0309055 A mathematical framework for automated bug localization.  In this paper, we propose a mathematical framework for automated bug localization. This framework can be briefly summarized as follows. A program execution can be represented as a rooted acyclic directed graph. We define an execution snapshot by a cut-set on the graph. A program state can be regarded as a conjunction of labels on edges in a cut-set. Then we argue that a debugging task is a pruning process of the execution graph by using cut-sets. A pruning algorithm, i.e., a debugging task, is also presented.
math/0407410 math/0407410 Homotopy and cohomology of spaces of locally convex curves in the sphere.  We discuss the homotopy type and the cohomology of spaces of locally convex parametrized curves gamma: [0,1] -> S^2, i.e., curves with positive geodesic curvature. The space of all such curves with gamma(0) = gamma(1) = e_1 and gamma'(0) = gamma'(1) = e_2 is known to have three connected components X_{-1,c}, X_1, X_{-1}. We show several results concerning the homotopy type and cohomology of these spaces. In particular, X_{-1,c} is contractible, X_1 and X_{-1} are simply connected, pi_2(X_{-1}) contains a copy of Z and pi_2(X_1) contains a copy of Z^2. Also, H^n(X_{1}, R) and H^n(X_{-1}, R) are nontrivial for all even n. More, dim H^{4n-2}(X_1, R) >= 2 and dim H^{4n}(X_{-1}, R) >= 2 for all positive n.
1203.1528 1203.1528 A Two-Dimensional Signal Space for Intensity-Modulated Channels.  A two-dimensional signal space for intensity- modulated channels is presented. Modulation formats using this signal space are designed to maximize the minimum distance between signal points while satisfying average and peak power constraints. The uncoded, high-signal-to-noise ratio, power and spectral efficiencies are compared to those of the best known formats. The new formats are simpler than existing subcarrier formats, and are superior if the bandwidth is measured as 90% in-band power. Existing subcarrier formats are better if the bandwidth is measured as 99% in-band power.
gr-qc/0207025 gr-qc/0207025 Nonlinear Spinor Field in Anisotropic Universes.  Evolution of an anisotropic universe described by a Bianchi type I (BI) model in presence of nonlinear spinor field has been studied by us recently in a series of papers. On offer the Bianchi models, those are both inhomogeneous and anisotropic. Within the scope of Bianchi type VI (BVI) model the self-consistent system of nonlinear spinor and gravitational fields are considered. The role of inhomogeneity in the evolution of spinor and gravitational field is studied.
hep-ph/0210367 hep-ph/0210367 Isospin relation and SU(3) breaking effects of strong phases in Charmless B decays.  Isospin and flavor SU(3) relations in charmless hadronic B decays $B\to \pi \pi, \pi K$ are investigated in detail with paying attention to the SU(3) symmetry breaking effects in both amplitudes and strong phases. In general, the isospin and the flavor SU(3) structure of the effective Hamiltonian provide several relations among the amplitudes and strong phases. Whereas a global fit to the latest data shows that some relation seems not to be favorable for a consistent explanation to the current data within the standard model (SM). By considering several patterns of SU(3) breaking, the amplitudes and the corresponding strong phases are extracted and compared with the theoretical estimations. It is found that in the case of SU(3) limits and also the case with SU(3) breaking only in amplitudes, the fitting results lead to an unexpected large ratio between two isospin amplitudes $a^{c}_{3/2}/a^{u}_{3/2}$, which is about an order of magnitude larger than the SM prediction. The results are found to be insensitive to the weak phase $\gamma$. By including SU(3) breaking effects on the strong phases, one is able to obtain a consistent fit to the current data within the SM, which implies that the SU(3) breaking effect on strong phases may play an important role in understanding the observed charmless hadronic B decay modes $B\to \pi \pi$ and $\pi K$. It is possible to test those breaking effects in the near future from more precise measurements of direct CP violation in B factories.
1108.5764 1108.5764 Bounds on the volume fraction of 2-phase, 2-dimensional elastic bodies and on (stress, strain) pairs in composites.  Bounds are obtained on the volume fraction in a two-dimensional body containing two elastically isotropic materials with known bulk and shear moduli. These bounds use information about the average stress and strain fields, energy, determinant of the stress, and determinant of the displacement gradient, which can be determined from measurements of the traction and displacement at the boundary. The bounds are sharp if in each phase certain displacement field components are constant. The inequalities we obtain also directly give bounds on the possible (average stress, average strain) pairs in a two-phase, two-dimensional, periodic or statistically homogeneous composite
1604.03369 1604.03369 Ionisation and discharge in cloud-forming atmospheres of brown dwarfs and extrasolar planets.  Brown dwarfs and giant gas extrasolar planets have cold atmospheres with a rich chemical compositions from which mineral cloud particles form. Their properties, like particle sizes and material composition, vary with height, and the mineral cloud particles are charged due to triboelectric processes in such dynamic atmospheres. The dynamics of the atmospheric gas is driven by the irradiating host star and/or by the rotation of the objects that changes during its lifetime. Thermal gas ionisation in these ultra-cool but dense atmospheres allows electrostatic interactions and magnetic coupling of a substantial atmosphere volume. Combined with a strong magnetic field $\gg B_{\rm Earth}$, a chromosphere and aurorae might form as suggested by radio and X-ray observations of brown dwarfs. Non-equilibrium processes like cosmic ray ionisation and discharge processes in clouds will increase the local pool of free electrons in the gas. Cosmic rays and lighting discharges also alter the composition of the local atmospheric gas such that tracer molecules might be identified. Cosmic rays affect the atmosphere through air showers which was modelled with a 3D Monte Carlo radiative transfer code to be able to visualise their spacial extent. Given a certain degree of thermal ionisation of the atmospheric gas, we suggest that electron attachment to charge mineral cloud particles is too inefficient to cause an electrostatic disruption of the cloud particles. Cloud particles will therefore not be destroyed by Coulomb explosion for the local temperature in the collisional dominated brown dwarf and giant gas planet atmospheres. However, the cloud particles are destroyed electrostatically in regions with strong gas ionisation. The potential size of such cloud holes would, however, be too small and might occur too far inside the cloud to mimic the effect of, e.g., magnetic field induced star spots.
hep-ph/9407205 hep-ph/9407205 Photon structure and the $\mu$ puzzle.  In this talk I first briefly explain the puzzle presented by the high muon content observed in air-showers which point to the ultra high-energy $\gamma$ sources like the HER-X-1. Since it had been suggested that a possible explanation of the puzzle might come from the effects of the hadronic structure of the photon, I briefly explain the concept of photon structure function and comment on the uncertainties in the predictions of the \sigtot. Then I show that while the current experiments at the \eplem\ (TRISTAN and LEP) and $ep$ (HERA) colliders have seen clear evidence for the hadronic structure of the photon, the observed muon excess in the air shower experiments, if confirmed by other experiments to be at the same high level, can not be explained in terms of the photon structure function.
math/0104230 math/0104230 A Stochastic Analog of Aubry-Mather Theory.  In this paper we discuss a stochastic analog of Aubry-Mather theory in which a deterministic control problem is replaced by a controlled diffusion. We prove the existence of a minimizing measure (Mather measure) and discuss its main properties using viscosity solutions of Hamilton-Jacobi equations. Then we prove regularity estimates on viscosity solutions of Hamilton-Jacobi equation using the Mather measure. Finally we apply these results to prove asymptotic estimates on the trajectories of controlled diffusions and study the convergence of Mather measures as the rate of diffusion vanishes.
1408.3570 1408.3570 Local rewiring rules for evolving complex networks.  The effects of link rewiring are considered for the class of directed networks where each node has the same fixed out-degree. We model a network generated by three mechanisms that are present in various networked systems; growth, global rewiring and local rewiring. During a rewiring phase a node is randomly selected, one of its out-going edges is detached from its destination then re-attached to the network in one of two possible ways; either globally to a randomly selected node, or locally to a descendant of a descendant of the originally selected node. Although the probability of attachment to a node increases with its connectivity, the probability of detachment also increases, the result is an exponential degree distribution with a small number of outlying nodes that have extremely large degree. We explain these outliers by identifying the circumstances for which a set of nodes can grow to very high degree.
0805.3072 0805.3072 Classification of complex naturally graded quasi-filiform Zinbiel algebras.  In this work the description up to isomorphism of complex naturally graded quasi-filiform Zinbiel algebras is obtained.
quant-ph/0602128 quant-ph/0602128 Local aspects of disentanglement induced by spontaneous emission.  We consider spontaneous emission of two two-level atoms interacting with vacuum fluctuations. We study the process of disentanglement in this system and show the possibility of changing disentanglement time by local operations.
0811.1147 0811.1147 Effect of 3d Transition Metal Doping on the Superconductivity in Quaternary Fluoroarsenide CaFeAsF.  We examined doping effect of 3d transition metal elements (TM: Cr, Mn, Co, Ni, and Cu) at the Fe site of a quaternary fluoroarsenide CaFeAsF, an analogue of 1111-type parent compound LaFeAsO. The anomaly at ~120 K observed in resistivity (rho) vs. temperature (T) plot for the parent compound is suppressed by the doping of each TM element. Furthermore, Co- and Ni-doping (CaFe1-xTMxAsF, TM = Co, Ni) induces superconductivity with a transition temperature maximized at the nominal x = 0.10 for Co (22 K) and at x = 0.05 for Ni (12 K). These optimal doping levels may be understood by considering that Ni2+(3d8) adds double electrons to the FeAs layers compared with Co2+ (3d7). Increased x for Co or Ni breaks the superconductivity while metallic nature drho/dT > 0 is still kept. These observations indicate that Co and Ni work as electron donors. In contrast, neither of Cr, Mn nor Cu-doping induce superconductivity, yielding drho/dT < 0 in the below the rho-T anomaly temperature, indicating that these transition metal ions act as scattering centers. The two different behavior of TM replacing the Fe site is discussed in relation to the changes in the lattice constants with the doping.
quant-ph/9709047 quant-ph/9709047 Proposed experimental tests of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem.  For a two-particle two-state system, sets of compatible propositions exist for which quantum mechanics and noncontextual hidden-variable theories make conflicting predictions for every individual system whatever its quantum state. This permits a simple all-or-nothing state-independent experimental verification of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem.
0803.0314 0803.0314 Prospects for identifying the sources of the Galactic cosmic rays with IceCube.  We quantitatively address whether IceCube, a kilometer-scale neutrino detector under construction at the South Pole, can observe neutrinos pointing back at the accelerators of the Galactic cosmic rays. The photon flux from candidate sources identified by the Milagro detector in a survey of the TeV sky is consistent with the flux expected from a typical cosmic-ray generating supernova remnant interacting with the interstellar medium. We show here that IceCube can provide incontrovertible evidence of cosmic-ray acceleration in these sources by detecting neutrinos. We find that the signal is optimally identified by specializing to events with energies above 30 TeV where the atmospheric neutrino background is low. We conclude that evidence for a correlation between the Milagro and IceCube sky maps should be conclusive after several years.
math/0702196 math/0702196 Shock waves for the Burgers equation and curvatures of diffeomorphism groups.  We establish a simple relation between curvatures of the group of volume-preserving diffeomorphisms and the lifespan of potential solutions to the inviscid Burgers equation before the appearance of shocks. We show that shock formation corresponds to a focal point of the group of volume-preserving diffeomorphisms regarded as a submanifold of the full diffeomorphism group and, consequently, to a conjugate point along a geodesic in the Wasserstein space of densities. This establishes an intrinsic connection between ideal Euler hydrodynamics (via Arnold's approach), shock formation in the multidimensional Burgers equation and the Wasserstein geometry of the space of densities.
cond-mat/0105595 cond-mat/0105595 Comment on 'Origin of Giant Optical Nonlinearity in Charge-Transfer--Mott Insulators: A New Paradigm for Nonlinear Optics'.  Comment on Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 2086 (2001)
1304.4538 1304.4538 Ultrafast Reversal of a Fano Resonance in a Plasmon-Exciton System.  When a two-level quantum dot and a plasmonic metal nanoantenna are resonantly coupled by the electromagnetic near field, the system can exhibit a Fano resonance, resulting in a transparency dip in the optical spectrum of the coupled system. We calculate the nonlinear response of such a system, for illumination both by continuous-wave and ultrafast pulsed lasers, using both a cavity quantum electrodynamics and a semiclassical coupled-oscillator model. For the experimentally relevant case of meV thermal broadening of the quantum-dot transition, we predict that femtosecond pulsed illumination can lead to a reversal of the Fano resonance, with the induced transparency changing into a superscattering spike in the spectrum. This ultrafast reversal is due to a transient change in the phase relationship between the dipoles of the plasmon and the quantum dot. It thus represents a new approach to dynamically control the collective optical properties and coherence of coupled nanoparticle systems.
astro-ph/9611163 astro-ph/9611163 Hubble Space Telescope Images of a Sample of Twenty Nearby Luminous Quasars.  Observations with the Wide-Field Camera of the Hubble Space Telescope are presented for a representative sample of 20 intrinsically luminous quasars with redshifts smaller than 0.30. These observations show that luminous quasars occur in diverse environments that include ellipticals as bright as the brightest cluster galaxies (2), apparently normal ellipticals (10), apparently normal spirals with H II regions (3), complex systems of gravitationally interacting components (3), and faint surrounding nebulosity (2). The quasar host galaxies are centered on the quasar to the accuracy of our measurements, 0.4 kpc. There are more radio quiet quasars in galaxies that appear to be ellipticals (7) than in spiral hosts (3), contrary to expectations. The average luminosity of the hosts is 2.2 magnitudes brighter than expected for a field galaxy luminosity function. We detect eight companion galaxies within projected distances of 10 kpc from quasar nuclei. Best figs. at http://www.sns.ias.edu/~jnb/Html/preprints.html
1401.3266 1401.3266 Localisation on Sasaki-Einstein manifolds from holomophic functions on the cone.  We study super Yang-Mills theories on five-dimensional Sasaki-Einstein manifolds. Using localisation techniques, we find that the contribution from the vector multiplet to the perturbative partition function can be calculated by counting holomorphic functions on the associated Calabi-Yau cone. This observation allows us to use standard techniques developed in the context of quiver gauge theories to obtain explicit results for a number of examples; namely $S^5$, $T^{1,1}$, $Y^{7,3}$, $Y^{2,1}$, $Y^{2,0}$, and $Y^{4,0}$. We find complete agreement with previous results obtained by Qiu and Zabzine using equivariant indices except for the orbifold limits $Y^{p,0}$ with $p > 1$.
1011.6531 1011.6531 Vector Formfactors in Hard Pion Chiral Perturbation Theory.  We use three-flavour hard pion Chiral Perturbation Theory (HPChPT) in both the heavy meson and a relativistic formulation to calculate the chiral logarithms $m^2\log(m^2/\mu^2)$ contributing to the formfactors of the $B_{(s)}\rightarrow \pi,K,\eta$ and $D_{(s)}\rightarrow \pi,K,\eta$ transitions at momentum transfer $q^2$ away from the endpoint $q^2_\mathrm{max}=(m_B-m_M)^2$. We compare our results with CLEO $D\to\pi$ and $D\to K$ data. We also calculate the Isgur-Wise function of the $B_{(s)}\rightarrow D_{(s)}$ semileptonic decay away from the endpoint and the chiral logarithms for the pion and kaon electromagnetic formfactor. In two-flavour HPChPT we calculate the chiral logarithms for the pion vector and the scalar formfactors at $s\gg m_\pi^2$. This allows us to test hard pion ChPT using the existing two-loop calculations for these quantities.
1509.01753 1509.01753 Positive steady states of an indefinite equation with a nonlinear boundary condition: existence, multiplicity, stability and asymptotic profiles.  We investigate positive steady states of an indefinite superlinear reaction-diffusion equation arising from population dynamics, coupled with a nonlinear boundary condition. Both the equation and the boundary condition depend upon a positive parameter $\lambda$, which is inversely proportional to the diffusion rate. We establish several multiplicity results when the diffusion rate is large and analyze the asymptotic profiles and the stability properties of these steady states as the diffusion rate grows to infinity. In particular, our results show that in some cases bifurcation from zero and from infinity occur at $\lambda=0$. Our approach combines variational and bifurcation techniques.
1409.4175 1409.4175 Reducible deformations and smoothing of primitive multiple curves.  A primitive multiple curve is a Cohen-Macaulay irreducible projective curve $Y$ that can be locally embedded in a smooth surface, and such that $C=Y_{red}$ is smooth. In this case, $L={\mathcal I}_C/{\mathcal I}_C^2$ is a line bundle on $C$. This paper continues the study of deformations of $Y$ to curves with smooth irreducible components, when the number of components is maximal (it is then the multiplicity $n$ of $Y$). We prove that a primitive double curve can be deformed to reduced curves with smooth components intersecting transversally if and only if $h^0(L^{-1})\not=0$. We give also some properties of reducible deformations in the case of multiplicity $n>2$.
1009.2002 1009.2002 Aero Fighter - 2D Gaming.  Designing and developing quality based computer game is always a challenging task for developers. In this paper I briefly discuss aero fighting war game based on simple 2D gaming concepts and developed in C & C++ programming languages, using old bitmapping concepts. Going into the details of the game development, I discuss the designed strategies, flow of game and implemented prototype version of game, especially for beginners of game programming.
1503.07427 1503.07427 Born-Infeld and Charged Black Holes with non-linear source in $f(T)$ Gravity.  We investigate $f(T)$ theory coupled with a nonlinear source of electrodynamics, for a spherically symmetric and static spacetime in $4D$. We re-obtain the Born-Infeld and Reissner-Nordstrom-AdS solutions. We generalize the no-go theorem for any content that obeys the relationship $\mathcal{T}^{\;\;0}_{0}=\mathcal{T}^{\;\;1}_{1}$ for the energy-momentum tensor and a given set of tetrads. Our results show new classes of solutions where the metrics are related through $b(r)=-Na(r)$. We do the introductory analysis showing that solutions are that of asymptotically flat black holes, with a singularity at the origin of the radial coordinate, covered by a single event horizon. We also reconstruct the action for this class of solutions and obtain the functional form $f(T) = f_0\left(-T\right)^{(N+3)/[2(N+1)]}$ and $\mathcal{L}_{NED} = \mathcal{L}_0\left(-F\right)^{(N+3)/[2(N+1)]}$. Using the Lagrangian density of Born-Infeld, we obtain a new class of charged black holes where the action reads $f(T) = -16\beta_{BI} \left[1 - \sqrt{1 + (T/4\beta_{BI})}\right]$.
cond-mat/0603007 cond-mat/0603007 Dynamical Response of Nanomechanical Oscillators in Immiscible Viscous Fluid for in vitro Biomolecular Recognition.  Dynamical response of nanomechanical cantilever structures immersed in a viscous fluid is important to in vitro single-molecule force spectroscopy, biomolecular recognition of disease-specific proteins, and the detection of microscopic dynamics of proteins. Here we study the stochastic response of biofunctionalized nanomechanical cantilevers beam in a viscous fluid. Using the fluctuation-dissipation theorem we derive an exact expression for the spectral density of the displacement and a linear approximation for the resonance frequency shift. We find that in a viscous solution the frequency shift of the nanoscale cantilever is determined by surface stress generated by biomolecular interaction with negligible contributions from mass loading.
1504.06781 1504.06781 Finding a Mate With No Social Skills.  Sexual reproductive behavior has a necessary social coordination component as willing and capable partners must both be in the right place at the right time. While there are many known social behavioral adaptations to support solutions to this problem, we explore the possibility and likelihood of solutions that rely only on non-social mechanisms. We find three kinds of social organization that help solve this social coordination problem (herding, assortative mating, and natal philopatry) emerge in populations of simulated agents with no social mechanisms available to support these organizations. We conclude that the non-social origins of these social organizations around sexual reproduction may provide the environment for the development of social solutions to the same and different problems.
0808.0161 0808.0161 Gamma Rays from Ultra-High Energy Cosmic Rays in Cygnus A.  Ultra-high energy cosmic rays (UHECRs) accelerated in the jets of active galactic nuclei can accumulate in high magnetic field, ~100 kpc-scale regions surrounding powerful radio galaxies. Photohadronic processes involving UHECRs and photons of the extragalactic background light make ultra-relativistic electrons and positrons that initiate electromagnetic cascades, leading to the production of a gamma-ray synchrotron halo. We calculate the halo emission in the case of Cygnus A and show that it should be detectable with the Fermi Gamma ray Space Telescope and possibly detectable with ground-based gamma-ray telescopes if radio galaxies are the sources of UHECRs.
1405.7583 1405.7583 On $X(3872)$ production in high energy heavy ion collisions.  We have determined the production cross sections of the $X(3872)$ state in the reactions $\bar D D\to\pi X$, $\bar D^* D\to \pi X$ and $\bar D^* D^*\to\pi X$, information which is useful for studies of the $X(3872)$ meson abundance in heavy ion collisions. We construct a formalism considering $X$ as a molecular bound state of $\bar D^0 D^{*0} - \textrm{c.c}$, $D^- D^{*+} - \textrm{c.c}$ and $D^-_s D^{*+}_s - \textrm{c.c}$. To obtain the amplitudes related to these processes we have made use of effective field Lagrangians. The evaluation of the cross section of the processes involving $D^*$ meson(s) requires the calculation of an anomalous vertex, $X\bar D^* D^*$, which has been obtained by considering triangular loops motivated by the molecular nature of $X(3872)$. Proceeding in this way, we have evaluated the cross section for the reaction $\bar D^* D\to \pi X$, and find that the diagrams involving the $X\bar D^* D^*$ vertex give a large contribution. Encouraged by this finding we estimate the $X\bar D^* D^*$ coupling, which turns out to be $1.95\pm 0.22$. We then use it to obtain the cross section for the reaction $\bar D^* D^*\to\pi X$ and find that, in this case too, the $X\bar D^* D^*$ vertex is relevant. We also discuss the role of the charged components of $X$ in the determination of the production cross sections.
1509.00075 1509.00075 AGT and the Segal-Sugawara construction.  The conjectures of Alday, Gaiotto and Tachikawa and its generalizations have been mathematically formulated as the existence of an action of a $W$-algebra on the cohomology or $K$-theory of the instanton moduli space, together with a Whitakker vector. However, the original conjectures also predict intertwining properties with the natural higher rank version of the '$Ext^1$ operator' which was previously studied by Okounkov and the author in [CO], a result which is now sometimes referred to as AGT in rank one [Alb,PSS]. Physically, this corresponds to incorporating matter in the Nekrasov partition functions, an obviously important feature in the physical theory. It is therefore of interest to study how the $Ext^1$ operator relates to the aforementioned structures on cohomology in higher rank, and if possible to find a formulation from which the AGT conjectures follow as a corollary. In this paper, we carry out something analogous using a modified Segal-Sugawara construction for the $\hat{\mathfrak{sl}}_2\mathbb{C}$ structure that appears in Okounkov and Nekrasov's proof of Nekrasov's conjecture [NO] for rank two. This immediately implies the AGT identities when the central charge is one, a case which is of particular interest for string theorists, and because of the natural appearance of the Seiberg-Witten curve in this setup, see for instance Dijkgraaf and Vafa [DV], as well as [IKV].
1309.2935 1309.2935 B_{c} absorption cross sections by nucleons.  The cross sections of $B_{c}$\ absorption by nucleons are calculated in meson-baryon exchange model using hadronic Lagrangian based on SU(4)/SU(5) flavor symmetries. The values of different coupling constants used in the model are obtained from vector meson dominance model, QCD sum rule or SU(4)/SU(5) flavor symmetries. Calculated values of cross sections are found to be significantly different from the previous study in which b-flavored hadron exchange is neglected. These results could be useful in calculating production rate of $B_{c}$ meson in relativistic heavy ion collisions.
quant-ph/0410112 quant-ph/0410112 Single-photon generation and simultaneous observation of wave and particle properties.  We describe an experiment that generates single photons on demand and measures properties accounted to both particle- and wave-like features of light. The measurement is performed by exploiting data that are sampled simultaneously in a single experimental run.
astro-ph/0602198 astro-ph/0602198 The AGN Contribution to the Mid-IR Emission of Luminous Infrared Galaxies.  We determine the contribution of AGN to the mid-IR emission of luminous infrared galaxies (LIRGs) at z>0.6 by measuring the mid-IR dust continuum slope of 20,039 mid-IR sources. The 24 micron sources are selected from a Spitzer/MIPS survey of the NOAO Deep Wide-Field Survey Bo\'otes field and have corresponding 8 micron data from the IRAC Shallow Survey. There is a clear bimodal distribution in the 24 micron to 8 micron flux ratio. The X-ray detected sources fall within the peak corresponding to a flat spectrum in nufnu, implying that it is populated by AGN-dominated LIRGs, whereas the peak corresponding to a higher 24 micron to 8 micron flux ratio is likely due to LIRGs whose infrared emission is powered by starbursts. The 24 micron emission is increasingly dominated by AGN at higher 24 micron flux densities (f_24): the AGN fraction of the z>0.6 sources increases from ~9% at f_24 ~ 0.35 mJy to 74+/-20% at f_24 ~ 3 mJy in good agreement with model predictions. Deep 24 micron, small area surveys, like GOODS, will be strongly dominated by starburst galaxies. AGN are responsible for ~ 3-7% of the total 24 micron background.
hep-ph/9606278 hep-ph/9606278 Renormalization Group Effects on the Mass Relation Predicted by the Standard Model with Generalized Covariant Derivatives.  Renormalization group analysis is made on the relation $m_{\rm H} \simeq \sqrt{2}m_t$ for masses of the top quark and the Higgs boson, which is predicted by the standard model based on generalized covariant derivatives with gauge and Higgs fields. This relation is a low energy manifestation of a tree level constraint which holds among the quartic Higgs self-coupling constant and the Yukawa coupling constants at a certain high energy scale $\mu_0$. With the renormalization group equation at one-loop level, the evolution of the constraint is calculated from $\mu_0$ down to the low energy region around the observed top quark mass. The result of analysis shows that the Higgs boson mass is in $m_t \lesssim m_{\rm H} \lesssim \sqrt{2}m_t$ for a wide range of the energy scale $\mu_0 \gtrsim m_t$ and it approaches to 177 GeV ($\approx m_t$) for large values of $\mu_0$.
astro-ph/9804085 astro-ph/9804085 Is the Universe a fractal? Results from the SSRS2.  We perform a fractal analysis of the Southern Sky Redshift Survey 2, following the methods prescribed by Pietronero and collaborators, to check their claim that the galaxy distribution is fractal at all scales, and we discuss and explain the reasons of some controversial points, through tests on both galaxy samples and simulations. We confirm that the amplitude of the two-point correlation function does not depend on the sample depth, but increases with luminosity. We find that there is no contradiction between the results of standard and non-standard statistical analysis; moreover, such results are consistent with theoretical predictions derived from standard CDM models of galaxy formation, and with the hypothesis of homogeneity at large scale ($\sim 100$ \h). However, for our SSRS2 volume-limited subsamples we show that the first zero-point of the autocorrelation function $\xi(s)$ increases linearly with the sample depth, and that its value is comparable to the radius of the maximum sphere which can be completely included in the sampled volume; this implies that the true zero-crossing point of $\xi(s)$ has not been reached. We conclude that the apparent fractal behavior is due to a combination of a luminosity-dependent correlation amplitude and the recovering of power at larger scales in deeper samples.
1002.0126 1002.0126 An Introduction to the Volume Conjecture.  This is an introduction to the Volume Conjecture and its generalizations for nonexperts. The Volume Conjecture states that a certain limit of the colored Jones polynomial of a knot would give the volume of its complement. If we deform the parameter of the colored Jones polynomial we also conjecture that it would also give the volume and the Chern-Simons invariant of a three-manifold obtained by Dehn surgery determined by the parameter. I start with a definition of the colored Jones polynomial and include elementary examples and short description of elementary hyperbolic geometry.
hep-th/9603150 hep-th/9603150 Phase Transitions In M-Theory And F-Theory.  Phase transitions are studied in $M$-theory and $F$-theory. In $M$-theory compactification to five dimensions on a Calabi-Yau, there are topology-changing transitions similar to those seen in conformal field theory, but the non-geometrical phases known in conformal field theory are absent. At boundaries of moduli space where such phases might have been expected, the moduli space ends, by a conventional or unconventional physical mechanism. The unconventional mechanisms, which roughly involve the appearance of tensionless strings, can sometimes be better understood in $F$-theory.
cond-mat/0612684 cond-mat/0612684 Monte Carlo Simulation of Electron Transport in Degenerate Semiconductors.  A modified algorithm is proposed to include Pauli exclusion principle in Monte-Carlo simulations. This algorithm has significant advantages to implement in terms of simplicity, speed and memory storage. We show that even in moderately high applied fields, one can estimate electronic distribution with a shifted Fermi sphere without introducing significant errors. Furthermore, the free-flights must be coupled to state availability constraints; this leads to substantial decrease in carrier heating at high fields. We give the correct definition for electronic temperature and show that in high applied fields, the quasi Fermi level is valley dependent. The effect of including Pauli exclusion principle on the band profile; electronic temperature and quasi Fermi level for inhomogeneous case of a single barrier heterostructure is illustrated.
1604.03810 1604.03810 Limits on the validity of the thin-layer model of the ionosphere for radio interferometric calibration.  For a ground-based radio interferometer observing at low frequencies, the ionosphere causes propagation delays and refraction of cosmic radio waves which result in phase errors in the received signal. These phase errors can be corrected using a calibration method that assumes a two-dimensional phase screen at a fixed altitude above the surface of the Earth, known as the thin-layer model. Here we investigate the validity of the thin-layer model and provide a simple equation with which users can check when this approximation can be applied to observations for varying time of day, zenith angle, interferometer latitude, baseline length, ionospheric electron content and observing frequency.
1405.5801 1405.5801 Physics at the University of Lviv: the first two centuries in the bibliographic aspect.  A detailed bibliography related to physics at the University of Lviv (Leopolis, Lemberg, Lw\'ow) in 18th-19th centuries is presented. Over ninety works of various types are listed with a large share being illustrated by title or starting pages. Brief biographical accounts of the authors are given to put their works in the context of the University history.
cond-mat/0109455 cond-mat/0109455 Disordering effects of colour in a system of coupled Brownian motors: phase diagram and anomalous-to-normal hysteresis transition.  A system of periodically coupled nonlinear phase oscillators submitted to both additive and multiplicative white noises has been recently shown to exhibit ratchetlike transport, negative zero-bias conductance, and anomalous hysteresis. These features stem from the 'asymmetry' of the stationary probability distribution function, arising through a noise-induced nonequilibrium phase transition which is 'reentrant' as a function of the multiplicative noise intensity. Using an explicit mean-field approximation we analyze the effect of the multiplicative noises being coloured, finding a contraction of the ordered phase (and a reentrance as a function of the coupling) on one hand, and a shift of the transition from anomalous to normal hysteresis inside this phase on the other.
1008.3569 1008.3569 Charmonium in China: BEPCII/BESIII.  Results based on 106 M $\psi'$ events and about 226 M $J/\psi$ events acquired with the BESIII detector at BEPCII are reported, including a confirmation of the BESII $p\bar{p}$ threshold enhancement in $J/\psi \to \gamma p\bar{p}$, branching ratios for $\chi_{cJ} \to \pi^0 \pi^0$ and $\eta \eta$, and first measurements of the branching ratios for $\psi' \to \pi^0 h_c$ and $h_c \to \gamma \eta_c$, as well as measurements of the mass and width of the $h_c$. Also reported are first observations of the two photon process $\psi' \to \gamma \gamma J/\psi$ and $f_0(980) - a_0(980)$ mixing.
nucl-th/0304067 nucl-th/0304067 Spin symmetry in the anti-nucleon spectrum.  We discuss spin and pseudo-spin symmetry in the spectrum of single nucleons and single anti-nucleons in a nucleus. As an example we use relativistic mean field theory to investigate single anti-nucleon spectra. We find a very well developed spin symmetry in single anti-neutron and single anti-proton spectra. The dominant components of the wave functions of the spin doublet are almost identical. This spin symmetry in anti-particle spectra and the pseudo-spin symmetry in particle spectra have the same origin. However it turns out that the spin symmetry in anti-nucleon spectra is much better developed than the pseudo-spin symmetry in normal nuclear single particle spectra.
1606.01476 1606.01476 Generation and removing apparent singularities in linear ordinary differential equations with polynomial coefficients.  Several examples of generation of apparent singular points in result of differentiation of particular homogeneous linear ordinary differential equations with polynomial coefficients are discussed. Two general conjectures concerning the generation and removal of apparent singularities in arbitrary Fuchsian differential equations with polynomial coefficients are formulated. A model problem from polymer physics is considered.
astro-ph/0206336 astro-ph/0206336 Turbulent diffusion and drift in galactic magnetic fields and the explanation of the knee in the cosmic ray spectrum.  We reconsider the scenario in which the knee in the cosmic ray spectrum is explained as due to a change in the escape mechanism of cosmic rays from the Galaxy from one dominated by transverse diffusion to one dominated by drifts. We solve the diffusion equations adopting realistic galactic field models and using diffusion coefficients appropriate for strong turbulence (with a Kolmogorov spectrum of fluctuations) and consistent with the assumed magnetic fields. We show that properly taking into account these effects leads to a natural explanation of the knee in the spectrum, and a transition towards a heavier composition above the knee is predicted.
1510.03896 1510.03896 On Operator-Valued Bi-Free Distributions.  In this paper, operator-valued bi-free distributions are investigated. Given a subalgebra $D$ of a unital algebra $B$, it is established that a two-faced family $Z$ is bi-free from $(B, B^{\mathrm{op}})$ over $D$ if and only if certain conditions relating the $B$-valued and $D$-valued bi-free cumulants of $Z$ are satisfied. Using this, we verify that a two-faced family of matrices is $R$-cyclic if and only if they are bi-free from the scalar matrices over the scalar diagonal matrices. Furthermore, the operator-valued bi-free partial $R$-, $S$-, and $T$-transforms are constructed. New proofs of results from free probability are developed in order to facilitate many of these bi-free results.
cond-mat/0406477 cond-mat/0406477 Two-Phase Equilibrium in Small Alloy Particles.  The coexistence of two phases within a particle requires an interface with a significant capillary energy. We show that this entails changes in the nature of alloy phase equilibria at small size. Most notably, the eutectic points in alloy phase diagrams degenerate into intervals of composition where the alloy melts discontinuously.
1105.1872 1105.1872 Spaces of matrices with a sole eigenvalue.  Let K be an arbitrary (commutative) field and L be an algebraic closure of it. Let V be a linear subspace of M_n(K), with n>2. We show that if every matrix of V has at most one eigenvalue in K, then dim V<=1+n(n-1)/2. If every matrix of V has a sole eigenvalue in L and dim V=1+n(n-1)/2, we show that V is similar to the space of all upper-triangular matrices with equal diagonal entries, except if n=3 and K has characteristic 3, or if n=4 and K has characteristic 2. In both of those special cases, we classify the exceptional solutions up to similarity.
1407.5884 1407.5884 A probabilistic approach to value sets of polynomials over finite fields.  In this paper we study the distribution of the size of the value set for a random polynomial with degree at most $q-1$ over a finite field $\mathbb{F}_q$. We obtain the exact probability distribution and show that the number of missing values tends to a normal distribution as $q$ goes to infinity. We obtain these results through a study of a random $r$-th order cyclotomic mappings. A variation on the size of the union of some random sets is also considered.
1210.7778 1210.7778 Pluto's Seasons: New Predictions for New Horizons.  Since the last Pluto volatile transport models were published (Hansen and Paige 1996), we have (i) new stellar occultation data from 2002 and 2006-2012 that have roughly twice the pressure as the discovery occultation of 1988, (ii) new information about the surface properties of Pluto, (iii) a spacecraft due to arrive at Pluto in 2015, and (iv) a new volatile transport model that is rapid enough to allow a large parameter-space search. Such a parameter-space search coarsely constrained by occultation results reveals three broad solutions: a high-thermal inertia, large volatile inventory solution with permanent northern volatiles (PNV); a lower thermal-inertia, smaller volatile inventory solution with exchanges between hemispheres, and a pressure plateau beyond 2015 (exchange with pressure plateau, EPP); and solutions with still smaller volatile inventories, with an early collapse of the atmosphere prior to 2015 (exchange with early collapse, EEC). PNV is favored by stellar occultation data, but EEC cannot yet be definitively ruled out without more atmospheric modeling or additional occultation observations and analysis.
hep-th/0504068 hep-th/0504068 Strings at the bottom of the deformed conifold.  We present solutions of the equations of motion of macroscopic F and D strings extending along the non compact 4D sections of the conifold geometry and winding around the internal directions. The effect of the Goldstone modes associated with the position of the strings on the internal manifold can be seen as a current on the string that prevents it from collapsing and allows the possibility of static 4D loops. Its relevance in recent models of brane inflation is discussed.
1605.02616 1605.02616 Consistent systems of linear differential and difference equations.  We consider systems of linear differential and difference equations \begin{eqnarray*} \partial Y(x) =A(x)Y(x), \sigma Y(x) =B(x)Y(x) \end{eqnarray*} with $\partial = \frac{d}{dx}$, $\sigma$ a shift operator $\sigma(x) = x+a$, $q$-dilation operator $\sigma(x) = qx$ or Mahler operator $\sigma(x) = x^p$ and systems of two linear difference equations \begin{eqnarray*} \sigma_1 Y(x) =A(x)Y(x), \sigma_2 Y(x) =B(x)Y(x) \end{eqnarray*} with $(\sigma_1,\sigma_2)$ a sufficiently independent pair of shift operators, pair of $q$-dilation operators or pair of Mahler operators. Here $A(x)$ and $B(x)$ are $n\times n$ matrices with rational function entries. Assuming a consistency hypothesis, we show that such system can be reduced to a system of a very simple form. Using this we characterize functions satisfying two linear scalar differential or difference equations with respect to these operators. We also indicate how these results have consequences both in the theory of automatic sets, leading to a new proof of Cobham's Theorem, and in the Galois theories of linear difference and differential equations, leading to hypertranscendence results.
hep-ph/9502417 hep-ph/9502417 Cosmology with a TeV mass GUT Higgs.  The most natural way to break the GUT gauge symmetry is with a Higgs field whose vacuum expectation value is of order $10^{16}\,\mbox{GeV}$ but whose mass is of order $10^2$ to $10^3\,\mbox{GeV}$. This can lead to a cosmological history radically different from what is usually assumed to have occurred between the standard inflationary and nucleosynthesis epochs, which may solve the gravitino and Polonyi/moduli problems in a natural way.
1009.2876 1009.2876 Computation of Darboux polynomials and rational first integrals with bounded degree in polynomial time.  In this paper we study planar polynomial differential systems of this form: dX/dt=A(X, Y), dY/dt= B(X, Y), where A,B belongs to Z[X, Y], degA \leq d, degB \leq d, and the height of A and B is smaller than H. A lot of properties of planar polynomial differential systems are related to irreducible Darboux polynomials of the corresponding derivation: D =A(X, Y)dX + B(X, Y)dY . Darboux polynomials are usually computed with the method of undetermined coefficients. With this method we have to solve a polynomial system. We show that this approach can give rise to the computation of an exponential number of reducible Darboux polynomials. Here we show that the Lagutinskii-Pereira's algorithm computes irreducible Darboux polynomials with degree smaller than N, with a polynomial number, relatively to d, log(H) and N, binary operations. We also give a polynomial-time method to compute, if it exists, a rational first integral with bounded degree.
1409.2530 1409.2530 Augmenting recommendation systems using a model of semantically-related terms extracted from user behavior.  Common difficulties like the cold-start problem and a lack of sufficient information about users due to their limited interactions have been major challenges for most recommender systems (RS). To overcome these challenges and many similar ones that result in low accuracy (precision and recall) recommendations, we propose a novel system that extracts semantically-related search keywords based on the aggregate behavioral data of many users. These semantically-related search keywords can be used to substantially increase the amount of knowledge about a specific user's interests based upon even a few searches and thus improve the accuracy of the RS. The proposed system is capable of mining aggregate user search logs to discover semantic relationships between key phrases in a manner that is language agnostic, human understandable, and virtually noise-free. These semantically related keywords are obtained by looking at the links between queries of similar users which, we believe, represent a largely untapped source for discovering latent semantic relationships between search terms.
